doc/source/contributing.rst, before:

.. _ref_contributing:

============
Contributing
============

Overall guidance on contributing to a PyAnsys library appears in the
`Contributing <dev_guide_contributing_>`_ topic
in the *PyAnsys Developer's Guide*. Ensure that you are thoroughly familiar
with it and all `Coding style <dev_guide_coding_style_>`_ before attempting to
contribute to PyMotorCAD.
 
The following contribution information is specific to PyMotorCAD.


Cloning the PyMotorCAD repository
==========================================

Run this code to clone and install the latest version of PyMotorCAD in development mode:

.. code:: console

    git clone https://github.com/pyansys/pymotorcad
    cd pymotorcad
    pip install --editable ansys-motorcad-core


Posting issues
==============

Use the `PyMotorCAD Issues <PyMotorCAD_issues_>`_
page to submit questions, report bugs, and request new features. When possible,
use these issue templates:

* Bug report template
* Feature request template
* Documentation issue template

If your issue does not fit into one of these categories, create your own issue.

To reach the project support team, email `pyansys.support@ansys.com <pyansys_support_>`_.

Viewing PyMotorCAD documentation
==========================================

Documentation for the latest stable release of PyMotorCAD is hosted at
`PyMotorCAD Documentation <PyMotorCAD_docs_>`_.

Code style
==========

PyMotorCAD follows PEP8 standard as outlined in the `PyAnsys Development Guide
<dev_guide_pyansys_>`_ and implements style checking using
`pre-commit <pre-commit_>`_.

To ensure your code meets minimum code styling standards, run::

    pip install pre-commit
    pre-commit run --all-files

You can also install this as a pre-commit hook by running::

    pre-commit install

This way, it's not possible for you to push code that fails the style checks. For example::

    $ pre-commit install
    $ git commit -am "Add a new feature."
    black....................................................................Passed
    blacken-docs.............................................................Passed
    isort....................................................................Passed
    flake8...................................................................Passed
    codespell................................................................Passed
    pydocstyle...............................................................Passed
    check for merge conflicts................................................Passed
    debug statements (python)................................................Passed
    Validate GitHub Workflows................................................Passed


.. LINKS AND REFERENCES
.. _pre-commit: https://pre-commit.com/
.. _pyansys_support: pyansys.support@ansys.com
.. _dev_guide_pyansys: https://dev.docs.pyansys.com/
.. _dev_guide_contributing: https://dev.docs.pyansys.com/dev/how-to/contributing.html
.. _dev_guide_coding_style: https://dev.docs.pyansys.com/dev/coding-style/index.html
.. _PyMotorCAD_issues: https://github.com/pyansys/pymotorcad/issues/
.. _PyMotorCAD_docs: https://motorcad.docs.pyansys.com/

Commit message:

Doc edits to RST and PY files (#92)
* Edits to RST files

* Fix typos detected by Vale

* Resolve two more Value issues

* Fix typo in README RST file found by PyAnsys code style checks and not Vale.

(Does Vale not check RST files outside of the "doc" folder?

* Edits to almost all PY files

* Fix typos found by code style checks

* Fix lines that are too long and run pre-commit locally

* Edits based on visual review of doc artifact from last push of changes

* Fix errors found by PyAnsys code style checks

* Revert changes to get_magnetic_graph so that checks are successful

* alphabetized API methods

* Apply suggestions from code review

Incorporate technical feedback

Co-authored-by: jgsdavies <80680946+jgsdavies@users.noreply.github.com>

* Restore original names for example links

* Remove trailing whitespace

---------

Co-authored-by: JackDavies <jack.davies@ansys.com>
Co-authored-by: jgsdavies <80680946+jgsdavies@users.noreply.github.com>

doc/source/contributing.rst, after:

.. _ref_contributing:

==========
Contribute
==========

Overall guidance on contributing to a PyAnsys library appears in the
`Contributing <dev_guide_contributing_>`_ topic
in the *PyAnsys Developer's Guide*. Ensure that you are thoroughly familiar
with this guide before attempting to contribute to PyMotorCAD.
 
The following contribution information is specific to PyMotorCAD.

Clone the repository
====================

Run this code to clone and install the latest version of PyMotorCAD in development mode:

.. code:: console

    git clone https://github.com/pyansys/pymotorcad
    cd pymotorcad
    pip install --editable ansys-motorcad-core


Post issues
===========

Use the `PyMotorCAD Issues <PyMotorCAD_issues_>`_
page to submit questions, report bugs, and request new features. When possible,
use these issue templates:

* Bug report template
* Feature request template
* Documentation issue template

If your issue does not fit into one of these categories, create your own issue.

To reach the project support team, email `pyansys.support@ansys.com <pyansys_support_>`_.

View PyMotorCAD documentation
=============================

Documentation for the latest stable release of PyMotorCAD is hosted at
`PyMotorCAD Documentation <PyMotorCAD_docs_>`_.

Adhere to code style
===================

PyMotorCAD is compliant with the `PyAnsys code style
<https://dev.docs.pyansys.com/coding-style/index.html>`_. it
uses the tool `pre-commit <pre-commit_>`_ to check the code style.
You can install and activate this tool with this code::

    pip install pre-commit
    pre-commit run --all-files

You can also install this tool as a pre-commit hook by running this command::

    pre-commit install

This way, it's not possible for you to push code that fails the style checks. For example::

    $ pre-commit install
    $ git commit -am "Add a new feature."
    black....................................................................Passed
    blacken-docs.............................................................Passed
    isort....................................................................Passed
    flake8...................................................................Passed
    codespell................................................................Passed
    pydocstyle...............................................................Passed
    check for merge conflicts................................................Passed
    debug statements (python)................................................Passed
    Validate GitHub Workflows................................................Passed


.. LINKS AND REFERENCES
.. _pre-commit: https://pre-commit.com/
.. _pyansys_support: pyansys.support@ansys.com
.. _dev_guide_pyansys: https://dev.docs.pyansys.com/
.. _dev_guide_contributing: https://dev.docs.pyansys.com/dev/how-to/contributing.html
.. _dev_guide_coding_style: https://dev.docs.pyansys.com/dev/coding-style/index.html
.. _PyMotorCAD_issues: https://github.com/pyansys/pymotorcad/issues/
.. _PyMotorCAD_docs: https://motorcad.docs.pyansys.com/
