doc/source/user_guide/virtual_env_motorcad.rst, before:

.. _ref_virtual_env_motorcad:

Using a Python virtual environment in Motor-CAD
===============================

User have a flexibility to use python virtual environment with Motor-CAD. By default Motor-CAD uses python 
comes with Motor-CAD installation. 

.. figure:: ../images/defaults_python_path.PNG
    :width: 500pt

Create a local Python virtual environment
*******************************
If python is already installed we can check the python version by following command in a terminal
(You can use the Windows terminal or any terminal integrated with an IDE
such as Visual Studio Code or PyCharm.)

.. code-block:: console

    python --version

Based on the Python version, you create a virtual environment:

.. code-block:: console

    python -m venv virtual_environment_folder_location

Activate the newly created virtual environment

.. code-block:: console

     .\virtual_environment_folder_location\Scripts\activate.ps1

Depending on the terminal specification, the virtual environment name might be highlighted.
Use ``pip`` to install all needed packages, such as :code:`ansys.motorcad.core` and :code:`bezier`. 

.. code-block:: console

     pip install ansys.motorcad.core bezier numpy

In terminal window the above commands may look like as shown below 

.. figure:: ../images/python_venv_summary.PNG
    :width: 500pt


Change the Python EXE file location in the Motor-CAD UI
*******************************
Proceed to change the Python Exe file location in  :code:`Defaults>Default File Locations` . This
should point to  :code:`pythonw.exe`  file under  :code:`Scripts`  folder of the virtual environment 
as shown below. 

.. figure:: ../images/change_python_location.PNG
    :width: 500pt



The new python file path will be updated accordingly and python version will be recognized by the 
Motor-CAD UI. 

.. figure:: ../images/changed_python_location.PNG
    :width: 500pt

Commit message:

updated based on review from JamesP and PipKat

doc/source/user_guide/virtual_env_motorcad.rst, after:

.. _ref_virtual_env_motorcad:

Using a Python virtual environment in Motor-CAD
===============================

You can use a Python virtual environment with Motor-CAD. By default, Motor-CAD uses the Python 
that comes with the Motor-CAD installation. 

.. figure:: ../images/defaults_python_path.PNG
    :width: 500pt

Create a local Python virtual environment
*******************************
.. note::
    If you are using a Python IDE, this will usually create a virtual environment for you when you 
    start a new project. In this case, you can skip the section below, which describes how to create
    a virtual environment from the command line.

If Python is already installed, you can check the version by running the following command in a terminal.
(You can use the Windows terminal or any terminal integrated with an IDE
such as Visual Studio Code or PyCharm.)

.. code-block:: console

    python --version

Based on the Python version, you create a virtual environment:

.. code-block:: console

    python -m venv virtual_environment_folder_location

Activate the newly created virtual environment:

In case of Windows Powershell 

.. code-block:: console

     .\virtual_environment_folder_location\Scripts\activate.ps1

In case of Windows Command Prompt 

.. code-block:: console

     .\virtual_environment_folder_location\Scripts\activate.bat

Depending on the terminal specification, the virtual environment name might be highlighted.
Use ``pip`` to install all needed packages, such as :code:`ansys.motorcad.core` and :code:`bezier`. 

.. code-block:: console

     pip install ansys.motorcad.core bezier numpy

In the terminal window the preceding commands might look like this:

.. figure:: ../images/python_venv_summary.PNG
    :width: 500pt


Change the Python EXE file path in the Motor-CAD UI
*******************************
Proceed to change the Python Exe file path in  **Defaults>Default File Locations**. This
should point to the :code:`pythonw.exe` file in the  :code:`Scripts` folder of the virtual environment
as shown below.

.. figure:: ../images/change_python_location.PNG
    :width: 500pt



The new Python file path is updated accordingly, and Python version is recognized by the 
Motor-CAD UI. 

.. figure:: ../images/changed_python_location.PNG
    :width: 500pt
